Okay,
so now in this lesson,
we are going to write a scrip that will back up our file system.
Very important script.
Um,
if you do not have,
ah,
back up product or backup application or backup solution in your environment.
Um,
most of the time.
Ah,
smaller companies do not have,
um,
the backup third party application that does the backup for them.
So what do they have to do is they have to rely on this operating system tools that are
available to do the backup and run those backers manually by creating little script?
If you're in a bigger company,
you have a backup.
Perfect.
Um,
you probably don't have to worry about it,
but I would still say that sometimes you do have to tar ah,
file to do the backup.
If you are making certain changes for certain times.
Anyway,
um,
let's go into the lesson.
And in this lesson,
we are going to back up r slash,
etc.
And war directories using the Tar Command.
Okay,
why am I picking slash at sea and war directories two reasons.
One,
These are the most important directories in Olynyk system environment,
which is less,
etc.
that has all the configuration files and war that has all your Apache and logging
information.
If you need to go back and troubleshoot same thing if you need to go back if something has
changed in your etc.
Directory configuration has gene in your application has stopped working.
You could go back and restored from your backed up etc.
Directory.
That's one reason second reason is I'm just picking these up.
You could actually pick up any directory that you want for your test purposes.
So I am picking these up as just for my lesson to go,
where to make you understand.
So we'll create the backup of these two directories was using the command tar.
I'm sure you're familiar with that.
Then what we're gonna do is we're gonna compress the backup file,
which is the tar file now using the Jesus command.
So compress is actually going to reduce the size off the tar file.
Then we're going to do,
Of course.
Then we're going to write a script to automate the entire process,
and we're gonna put some logic.
Some intelligence inside of the scrip that will look for the backup file first before is
actually.
Ah,
move it somewhere,
send it to someone,
or send an email that the back of his complete or anything.
So we will put that logic in there.
So let's,
um,
go into a winning machine.
Um,
I have logged in again as myself and which directory I'm in.
I'm in my home directory now,
since we are going to back up had that sash at Sea and War Directory.
These are the directories that are owned by route.
So me being being myself,
I don't have permissions to do the ah,
backups or touch,
even touch those records.
What do I have to do is I have to become route perfect.
Who am I?
You confirm that I am route now?
I'm very powerful.
I could do anything I want.
So the command,
first of all,
we always before you write a script,
always run your command to make sure that command works.
Before you actually put that command inside of his script.
So I'm gonna do the same thing I'm gonna do.
Tar C v F.
It's just the option for the tar to actually put everything off.
Um,
that's the etc.
Or tar.
And then you have to specify the name off the destination file,
which is back up dot backup dot tar and what are be backing up your backing up at sea and
slash war.
So that's simple command to tar both of these directories and put them into backup Tar Tar
file,
which will go into slash temp directory.
Let's run it.
As you could see,
it's coming up with all those files and it looks perfect.
It actually taking every file and at sea and every file or directory in war and tarring it
together in a tar ball.
And it'll put in to the file that we have specified,
which is back up tour.
Okay,
so it should be done.
Ah,
pretty soon.
My system is small.
It's not huge.
But if your system that you're working on as pretty big and has gigs of gigs off ah so file
system petition in etc.
And war,
then it's probably gonna take low longer.
Anyway,
we'll give it a,
um,
a few seconds.
Other go see.
It's done as a matter off conversation that I was having with you,
and it's done.
Now let's verify it.
If it actually has created the file in where we defined the location temp right and the
father was back up.
I had TAB and it automatically completed because it knows there's a file their hit enter,
and now you'll see the date.
The time the file was created and it is their perfect It has everything.
Now,
if you wanted to view what's inside the file,
you could view that by untiring it.
Or you could use the option tar T V F,
which will not untie or a bill.
It'll just show you what's inside anyway.
Our focus is not the tar or compress command.
Our focus is to write a script that will run those commands,
right.
So now we know that it works.
Next thing we have to do is we have to compress it so G zip attempt back.
You see the size off my slash at cease and slash war is this much,
and when I do that Jesus,
it will reduce the size.
Um,
most likely,
it should bring it down to about half off its size,
and once it's completed,
it will actually change extension from backup dot tar to back up the tar dot G zip and Of
course,
it will have a lot smaller size.
I come hopefully should be done soon.
If you are doing with me while I am teaching you,
that would be great exercise to actually toria walls and to compress your fault.
By the way,
if it is taking a really long time,
you could actually open up another terminal.
I'll show you This is a good exercise as well.
Log in the stem.
Log in as root because you're running his route.
I can now go to Temp directory and do ls minus lt or on backup asterisk.
And you will see both files.
One is back of dark tar and the other one's backup dot r dot gz Now,
since we are command is still running,
it means this size is going to change.
If I run that command again,
you see,
it's keep reducing.
Keep shrinking the file.
Okay.
Anyway,
um,
if you look at the back window,
you will see the Commander's finished successfully,
and the both of our commands that we want to include in our script ran successfully.
And even if the script will run it,
we know it's not gonna ever out or it's not gonna complain.
Now,
the time to actually create,
um,
our backup script.
So we'll call it back up.
Um,
file system.
you could pick any name you want.
Of course.
Hit.
Enter.
Now you have to specify the show.
Been bash,
um,
again.
Who is the author on the other?
In your case,
you're the out there.
Okay.
Date 080 a to 20.
Why am I picking 0808 all the time?
This is something.
Ah,
someone sport.
There's it.
Something important.
No,
this is something I'm This is stuck in my mind.
I keep on picking on there anyway.
Description is back up,
slash etc.
And sash war files.
That's description important.
Modified.
It's the first time,
so we'll leave the same day.
All right,
now we have to put the same commander.
He created Iran,
which is to tar cbf him back up Qatar at sea sesh war.
Then what you're gonna do,
we gonna compress it.
Jesus,
Back up,
Dr.
Right now you're probably thinking Hey,
Imron.
Ah,
maybe when it runs the script runs all the time it runs.
It does the back of that tar file and the file or exists is gonna all right.
The older file,
right?
Yes,
you are right.
It will overwrite if you want to have.
Ah,
different name every time it creates that.
You could do that by specifying dot Um,
the date variable.
Um,
again,
I'm not gonna go into it.
It's gonna get very longer.
But you could You could definitely do that.
No,
Get into our backups.
Now.
The first thing I have to do is find back up dot tar dot gz before it's actually going to
run the script.
I have to actually Sorry.
When it runs a script and creates it,
I have to do something with that.
I have to notify the system administrator,
or I have to actually copy that back up and put it somewhere.
So in case if this system were the server I'm working on,
if it actually crashes,
then I could actually recover from another server.
So it's always a good idea to trash for them.
You.
So this is the time I'm actually doing that third step.
So before I do the third step,
I have to verify if that actually filed that I'm going to trash for exist.
So And that would be I'm saying that Find backup dot org EMS m time and if it exists,
minus one.
Meaning if it if it was created to date,
not yesterday.
I don't want to send the yesterday's backup dot file type if print and then an percent Deb
.
No,
basically,
I'm saying,
if it is exist m time,
this which is the type,
is the file simple file,
then print.
I don't have to put that print.
It's gonna put it on the screen,
But,
you know,
it's just a command that I have.
Well,
leave it And I'm saying and percent greatest sign,
meaning Whatever the output comes out from here,
don't throw it on the screen.
Just put it on Definable Dumb null is just a a way to flush out the output.
But it doesn't mean that we're flushing out the actual operating we're not going to use it
would be,
actually will use it.
But it's not gonna throw that on the screen.
So now what we're gonna do is if dollar question mark is equal to zero Now what ISS dollar
question mark,
it's exit status.
If the command that ran earlier than that which is this?
So what we're saying is,
if we find a backup dot tarred a gz which was created today and that's we would define and
their exit status zero,
which is It's there.
Then may put then right here.
Then what do you want to do?
Echo back up was created Perfect,
right,
that go Just put one more line in that.
Go another and now se archiving back up because archiving being you're sending it to
another location and the another location would be you have to run the command like FTP or
SCP or whatever the command that you're running to run SCP Sex Temps as backup Qatar,
which is that well to wear to root,
um,
anywhere your server that you want to send it to 18 to 1 68.1 dot one or two.
Forex,
whatever.
And then the pie path,
where is gonna go,
too,
and then do else if it cannot find it now else's if equal.
If the output is not equal to one,
then what you want to do else echo back up fails.
Simple Is that and then just two feet.
So this is the script to actually back up the file system and actually transferring their
fall back of the tar file toe another location.
Now,
since we are testing it and this is like a training lab,
I just wanted to exclude this put hash here because what Hash is gonna do is gonna comment
out this entire line.
So now when me and I'm gonna run this script,
what it's gonna do is if this file backup file exist,
that is going to say backup was created and archiving the backup.
And if it does not exist,
then it's gonna say at Gobekli failed Simple is that I'm gonna modify the permission.
Execute herbal to back up all system.
Perfect.
Now let's run it.
All right.
Moment of truth.
You know what is doing?
It is backing up your false system.
-
Mm
.
You see,
just what happened here came back and it says back up that tar find no such file or
directory.
Why is that?
Ah,
occurs,
Let's see what our script is doing.
Our script is first tarring and putting it right here.
And then ah,
see right here.
I did not specify the slash backup,
so I'll do war backup FS.
I have to let it know where that file is located.
And Wallace temp.
So that's what you have to do it here.
You have to specify the absolute path again because if you are running from somewhere else
,
it will complain.
Now it should run.
But now I don't want to run it.
I wanted to common that out because we already have the back dot cheesy.
That's where if I temp back up such easy.
Yes,
we have it.
Now let's run our script and it says Backup was created are coming.
Perfect.
Now what if I delete that?
Yes.
Now I run the script back a field.
They go Bingo anyway,
So that's how you need to create a backup.
If you are in your environment of corporate environment,
you could back up the entire file system or Pacific file system that you want to do and
whatever that you wanted to do with that you want to send a human modification or you want
to send it to a different host.
You could do that